There are a few prerequisites you'll need to do the examples in
this course. I am using Java 11. Java 11 is the most recent
long‑term supported, or LTS, version.
There have been other releases since then,
but 11 is the most current LTS. With Spring 5,
you're required to use Java 11 or later,
but most, if not all, developers are now using it for Java
development. I am assuming that you already know how to install
Java, so we won't be covering that in this course.
I'm also going to use Maven in this course. I've been asked about
Spring Boot and I like it for a lot of situations,
the feedback that we often receive though is it's too much of a
black box for developers learning new technologies.
Once you know how the underlying pieces work, it's a great tool.
Spring no longer offers up a way, though, to just download the JARs and you're
forced to use Maven or Gradle to download those dependencies.
There is a Pluralsight course on Maven. If you have more questions about that,
you can go research and follow it.
The next thing you'll need is an IDE. I'm using Spring STS,
which is just a flavor of Eclipse.
In fact, it's just rebranded Eclipse.
If you're already using Eclipse,
you can go ahead and just keep that and it'll work just fine, but I like
Spring STS because it has a lot of the common plugins installed and you don't
have very many, if any at all, configuration issues.
The steps for Eclipse and Spring STS should be nearly identical, if
not the same. For our web container, we're going to use Tomcat 9.
At the time of writing this course,
10 is still a release candidate, so 9 is the stable version. And
lastly for our database, we're going to use MySQL. MySQL has great tooling and is pretty user friendly.